Hermes at Chain React (#323)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/blog/2019-07-18-chain-react-2019.md

---

> title: Highlights @ Chain React

Reviewer: Hermes @ Chain React

slug: chain-react-2019-higlights-hermes
date: 2019-07-18T12:00:00-04:00
author: Elias Nahum
github: enahum
community: elias
---

```
- Yes, yes...
- for real?
- Yes I come all the way from Taiwan... and you?
- Oh I'm from here.. and what about you
- me? hmm I flew 18 hours to get here (me)
```

> In short the above is how the whole thing started, really interesting how people from all over the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In short, the above is how the whole thing started. It is really interesting how people from all over the 
```

> globe attended the event, it was fun, a learning experience and even the unexpected was waiting on us. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
globe attended the event. It was a fun learning experience and even the unexpected was waiting on us. 
```

> The first day began and all those stranger faces were getting a bit more familiar as 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first day began and all those strange faces were getting a bit more familiar as 
```

> everyone started to talk to each other, most of the time the barrier came down by 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
everyone started to talk to each other, and most of the time the barrier came down by 
```

> asking "Where are you from?"... "Oh... that's cool" and slowly then everyone was talking 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asking "Where are you from?"... or "Oh... that's cool", and slowly everyone was then talking 
```

> asking "Where are you from?"... or "Oh... that's cool", and slowly everyone was then talking 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asking "Where are you from?"... or "Oh... that's cool". Slowly everyone was then talking 
```

> React Native here, RN there, library over there, how did you solve this problem or the other, etc. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React Native here, RN there, library over there, how did you solve this problem or the other, and so on. 
```

Speaking about libraries, we recently decided to change from using Redux and redux-persist 

> to [Realm]([https://realm.io/docs/javascript/latest/#getting-started](https://realm.io/docs/javascript/latest/#getting-started)), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to [Realm]([https://realm.io/docs/javascript/latest/#getting-started](https://realm.io/docs/javascript/latest/#getting-started)).
```

> to [Realm]([https://realm.io/docs/javascript/latest/#getting-started](https://realm.io/docs/javascript/latest/#getting-started)), 

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this link is rendering.

Author: fixed

> by looking at Realm we found this amazing library that will let us keep the same redux pattern but 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By looking at Realm we found this amazing library that will let us keep the same redux pattern but 
```

using Realm under the hood; the library is 
called [realm-react-redux](https://github.com/lolatravel/realm-react-redux) but it was 
not being kept up to date. Basically the maintainers moved on to different projects and 

> they have not heard of anyone using it, Boom! first surprise we met one of the library 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they have not heard of anyone using it. Boom! First surprise. We met one of the library 
```

> creators and after explaining our use case they are now more than willing to merge our PR's to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
creators and after explaining our use case they are now more than willing to merge our PRs to 
```

update the library as well as incorporate a few improvements.

> Great, after and hour or so, here we go, is time for the conference to actually kick off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Great, after and hour or so, here we go, it's time for the conference to actually kick off.
```

> Great, after and hour or so, here we go, is time for the conference to actually kick off, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Great, after and hour or so, here we go, is time for the conference to actually kick off.
```

> the MC a very entertaining dude, opened the way to our first speaker:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The MC was a very entertaining dude, and opened the way to our first speaker:
```

#### Improving React Native Performance (Marc Horowitz)

> Right from the start the Facebook React Native core team made a very BIG announcement, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right from the start the Facebook React Native core team made a very BIG announcement:
```

this was all about improving performance on cold start (app start), 
taking into consideration three primary metrics: 
`TTI (Time to Interaction)`, `APK (application size)` and `Memory (as in utilization)`.

So what does this mean?

# 🎉 Hermes welcome!

> Hermes is a new JavaScript engine designed for mobile environments, that its focused on 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hermes is a new JavaScript engine designed for mobile environments. It's focused on 
```

> Hermes is a new JavaScript engine designed for mobile environments, that its focused on 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hermes is a new JavaScript engine designed for mobile environments that is focused on 
```

> startup performance, after this short explanation by Marc, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
startup performance. After this short explanation by Marc, 
```

> I personally went nuts! right there and without any knowledge of what was about to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I personally went nuts! Right there and without any knowledge of what was about to 
```

happen a video pops up in the screen.

[![Mattermost JSC vs Herms](/blog/2019-07-18-chain-react-2019/thumbnail.png)](https://youtu.be/EnefPsVRSn4)
*<span style="font-size: 12px">click on the image to open the YouTube video.</span>*

BOOM BOOM POW! as you can see in the video above, the RN core team wanted to show the results on a 

> real world app with complex interactions, layouts and functionality and they chose Mattermost. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
real world app with complex interactions, layouts and functionality, and they chose Mattermost. 
```

> The Mattermost app was shown as an example of what Hermes can achieve, in our app case just by 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Mattermost app was shown as an example of what Hermes can achieve. In our app case just by 
```

> switching from JSC to Hermes it improved cold start in about 50% on a Pixel XL (2016) phone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
switching from JSC to Hermes, cold start improved in about 50% on a Pixel XL (2016) phone.
```

Here more detailed results:
![Mattermost mobile app](/blog/2019-07-18-chain-react-2019/hermes-stats.jpg)

And a few more comparisons thanks to [Ram Narasimhan](blog.nparashuram.com):

   - TTI Traces - [JSC](https://nparashuram.github.io/mattermost-mobile/jsc/trace-jsc.html) vs [Hermes](https://nparashuram.github.io/mattermost-mobile/hermes/trace-hermes.html)
   - Memory Usage - [JSC](https://nparashuram.github.io/mattermost-mobile/jsc/mem-jsc.txt) vs [Hermes](https://nparashuram.github.io/mattermost-mobile/hermes/mem-hermes.txt)
   - APK Size - [JSC](https://nparashuram.github.io/mattermost-mobile/jsc/size-jsc.html) vs [Hermes](https://nparashuram.github.io/mattermost-mobile/hermes/size-hermes.html)

> Ok lets dig a little deeper and see why Hermes improves cold start. When you build a mobile app with 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ok, lets dig a little deeper and see why Hermes improves cold start. When you build a mobile app with 
```

> React Native basically all your JS code is transpiled with babel to convert your ECMAScript 2015+ 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React Native, basically all your JS code is transpired with babel to convert your ECMAScript 2015+ 
```

code into a backwards compatible version of JavaScript in current and older environments, then the 
code is minified to reduce its bundle size and the bundle is saved within your app. When you run the 
app the JavaScript engine kicks in, parses the bundle and compiles it into bytecode and finally it 

> gets executed. Hermes changes thing a bit, your app is still transpiled with babel and then minified, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gets executed. Hermes changes things a bit, your app is still transpiled with babel and then minified, 
```

> but Hermes uses an ahead-of-time compiler, which runs as part of the mobile app build process, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but Hermes uses an ahead-of-time compiler, which runs as part of the mobile app build process.
```

> that also allows to spend more time optimizing the bytecode, and with this the bytecode is smaller in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This also allows to spend more time optimizing the bytecode, and with this the bytecode is smaller in 
```

> size and more efficient. Some of the optimizations that are performed include function deduplication 

Reviewer 3: From a technical perspective, I'm wondering if there is anything we can flesh out here in more detail -- deduplicating functions and packing string tables /seems/ like it wouldn't cause a 2x performance boost, but I may not fully understand the impact.

Author: There's not much that I can say about this, as I don't really know the impact in performance that we'll get, but this is highlighted by Hermes as some of the optimizations that they perform during build time.

> namely when we think we might ship these improvements, an itemized list of blockers, etc.

We are currently implementing and it would be awesome for @migbot to write another blog post after he finishes with the implementation as a follow up post

and string table packing.

Basically with Hermes the following is done during build time: transpile with babel, minify, 

> parses and compile to bytecode and then on run time the app just executes, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parse and compile to bytecode and then on run time the app just executes, 
```

meaning that it starts faster as there are less actions to take when the app first loads.

One thing that I'm not really sure about is what is the impact that using Hermes will cause to CodePush 

> or other OTA (Over the Air) updates, the reality is that we at Mattermost do not use OTA as of now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or other OTA (Over the Air) updates. The reality is that we at Mattermost do not use OTA as of now.
```

Conventional engine vs Hermes
![Hermes build and run time](/blog/2019-07-18-chain-react-2019/hermes-build.gif)

##### No Just in Time compiler (JIT)

> Most widely use JavaScript engines like JSC use JIT to lazily compile interpreted code to machine code, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most widely used JavaScript engines like JSC use JIT to lazily compile interpreted code to machine code, 
```

> but Hermes does not has a JIT compiler, meaning that it can underperform some benchmarks, especially 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but Hermes does not have a JIT compiler, meaning that it can underperform some benchmarks, especially 
```

those that depend on CPU performance. In reality those benchmarks in general are not representative of 
mobile application workloads, so we should be good with this. What we need to understand is that 
conventional engines that use JIT need to warm up when the application starts and that has an impact 

> with TTI (Time to interaction) and lets not forget that JIT will also add to code size and memory 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with TTI (Time to interaction). Also, let's not forget that JIT will also add to code size and memory 
```

consumption that will also have a negative impact in cold start. Basically there are some trade-offs 
by using Hermes instead of JSC or other conventional engines, but the interpreter performance should 
be good enough.

##### What does this mean during development

> When developing your app Hermes will not use ahead-of-time compilation, instead it will generate the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When developing your app, Hermes will not use ahead-of-time compilation, instead it will generate the 
```

> bytecode lazily on the device, allowing rapid interaction with Metro, obviously this means that the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bytecode lazily on the device, allowing rapid interaction with Metro. Obviously this means that the 
```

> lazy-compiled bytecode will not include all the optimizations of a production build, in theory you 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lazy-compiled bytecode will not include all the optimizations of a production build. In theory you 
```

should expect a more performant app in production than in development.

> Another think to consider is that Hermes focused on ES6 specifications and it should be kept up to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another thing to consider is that Hermes focused on ES6 specifications and it should be kept up to 
```

> date as new specifications emerge, but one important thing is that because the goal was to keep the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date as new specifications emerge. However, one important thing is that because the goal was to keep the 
```

> size small some of the language features are not included, such as proxies and local `eval()`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
size small, some of the language features are not included, such as proxies and local `eval()`. 
```

[Here is a complete list of unsupported features](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/blob/master/doc/Features.md#excluded-from-support).

> We do use `Reflect` in various places throughout our code base at Mattermost, and it is one of the non 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We do use `Reflect` in various places throughout our code base at Mattermost, and it is one of the
```

Author: @amyblais here I'm saying that is a feature that is NOT supported by Hermes

Author: nvm

> We do use `Reflect` in various places throughout or code base at Mattermost, and it is one of the non 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We do use `Reflect` in various places throughout our code base at Mattermost, and it is one of the non 
```

> supported features of JS. Thus, in our case we will need to either use a polyfill or make changes appropriately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
unsupported features of JS. Thus, in our case we will need to either use a polyfill or make changes appropriately.
```

> supported features of JS, so in our case we will need to either use a polyfill or make changes appropriately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
supported features of JS. Thus, in our case we will need to either use a polyfill or make changes appropriately.
```

#### Conclusion

> Hermes was a great surprise, we know we've been doing a lot of work trying to improve cold start on 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hermes was a great surprise: we know we've been doing a lot of work trying to improve cold start on 
```

Android, we implemented RAM Bundles (previously known as Unbundling), we use inline requires, 

> lazy load of native modules with the new `TurboReactPackage` and whatever other strategy we can think of, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we use lazy load of native modules with the new `TurboReactPackage`, and whatever other strategy we can think of, 
```

> so definitely looking forward to add Hermes to our Android React Native app and probably contribute 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So we are definitely looking forward to add Hermes to our Android React Native app and probably contribute 
```

> back to Hermes those features that we need to avoid the use of polyfills. And still looking forward to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
back to Hermes those features that we need in order to avoid the use of polyfills. And still looking forward to 
```
